hey guys welcome to lingo marina today
we're gonna cover
my favorite topic differences between
british and american english
whenever we start talking about this
topic you ask me
marina which version of english should i
learn
and my answer is always it's up to you
they're all amazing there's also
australian english if you look
at uk english there are so many
different regional accents in the ideal
world
i would love to understand and speak
them all
which is kind of not possible because
there are so many
but it really depends on what your goals
are so for example if you want to take
toefl
toefl is considered an american test and
the majority of
tasks in toefl would be in american
english but
they would not penalize you if you start
using british accent
as long as you're consistent as long as
you use
british version of english in every
single exercise that you're taking then
you should be fine on the other side
there is a very popular
ielts exam and this one is considered
british and if you're
trying to enter british university i
would recommend taking ielts
and ielts is mostly based on british
english
so again really up to you you won't be
penalized
but it would make your life a little
easier if you decide to start learning
american accent for example and you see
yourself
working in america in two or three years
you need to think about where you see
yourself in three or five years
and then stick to a version of english
that you've selected
today we're going to talk about major
differences
and i think this video would really help
you determine
what kind of english you want to learn
but before we start
please like this video and subscribe to
my channel if you like learning english
and if you like the way i speak english
so first of all there are loads of words
and i'm pretty sure you know
a lot of them but i just want to make
sure you remember that some words
mean the same in britain in america but
they are
completely different words for example
in america we live in an apartment
apartment 32.
in britain we live in a flat a joe
harrison's flat
in america if you want to ask someone
where did you go to college
you actually mean whether they go to
university because
stanford for example stanford university
harvard is harvard university
but still when you're asking about a
university you would ask
where did you go to college the answer
would be i went to harvard meaning
harvard university
but you still use the word college i
know it's a little weird but
this is the way it is in the uk you
would ask about the university
university not college what about
college what about college
from the university in america you go on
a vacation
in the uk you go on a holiday and it's
actually holiday it's all not
a holiday again i am not a native
speaker but i've lived in the u.s for
five years so i think my accent
is kind of more california in america we
have our
mailbox in great britain it's postbox
in america we eat cookies in great
britain
biscuits cookie biscuit
in america we go watch a movie in great
britain
we go to watch a film but by the way
if you use any of those words in those
countries people would still understand
what you mean by movie in great britain
well in america you might
mix things up a little by saying film
because in the us
we say film for the actual thing that
was used to produce
movies dozens of years ago that was
called film quick ad break
if you are looking for more ways to
master your english
lingoda has come up with new very
interesting challenge
and i like how creative they get with
their challenges
this time they've created a lingoda team
challenge
that means you are going through this
challenge not alone
but with a team of your friends you can
choose from two options
you can take three classes per week for
seven weeks that means 21 classes or you
can do super challenge
5 classes a week 7 weeks 35 classes in
total
you can take this challenge to improve
your english and that would mean that
you will take
online small group classes 60 minutes
each but you can also take this
challenge
in german french and spanish you can
join this challenge as an individual but
i highly recommend
forming your own group of friends for
example if you have friends that are
also
willing to learn english with you you
can join all together and challenge each
other and compete with each other
that makes this challenge even more
interesting no matter if you register as
an individual
or a team if you take 100 of the classes
lingoda will donate 20 of the classes
you've taken to those who are in need
through their scholarship program 10
bastering teams get
prizes uh one of the teams would get a
trip
to one of european four capitals and
other teams will be able to get
200 free classes on lingoda and by the
way for
every team member that you recruit you
get 10 euros cashback
your team can be from 2 to 12 people you
can learn different languages at
different levels
one thing that has been in common for
your team is the amount of classes that
you take per week
and you all can live in different cities
and different countries
when you buy the product you will get
all the instructions to your email don't
forget to edit your name to get 10 euros
cashback for every team member that you
bring
all team members must sign up by
november 1st
and complete their challenge within 63
days by december 1st
and again if you choose to take this
challenge you're going to be taught by
qualified native speakers the classes
are available 24
7 and because the online classes are
really small on average they have like
three people per class
you will be able to get individual
feedback so if you're serious about
learning english commit to a course
build a routine of attending classes
regularly
and bring your english to the next level
the link will be down below don't forget
to add my key name lingua marinas to
start building your teams
commit to this challenge improve your
language and let me know down in
comments below if you've taken the
challenges from lingoda
before and how they went because i
really like what this company is doing
on the language market
and i really hope they will help you
improve your language skills
the next difference is using present
perfect in british
and american english if you've taken my
classes on tenses
you know that i've eaten means i'm not
hungry and this is a very british thing
to say so for example in great britain
would say i've eaten meaning i am not
hungry
in america we would just use present
simple
and generally speaking americans just
like to simplify
things and british people are more
traditional so in america i would say i
already had lunch i'm not hungry i am
using
past simple here versus present perfect
that i would use
if i try to sound more british oh the
next one is my favorite
because i have a very close friend in
great britain and she would
always always always use that question
she looks so beautiful doesn't she he
is amazing isn't he and for her
this is supernatural for me this is a
little weird because in america
people don't really use tag questions
for me again it's not
even weird it's really beautiful because
i feel like i'm in a movie or
at a very formal party and everyone's
like oh this tastes amazing
doesn't it this is very british to use
tech questions whenever a person is
using attack question i'm like
yay british you are mad the next thing
got versus garden you know this third
form of the word
in america we sometimes say garden this
is something that
stuck in american language in britain
you would say he's gotten more serious
about his profession
in america because we still have this
garden we would say
he's gotten more serious about his
profession
he's gotten through ripper sprees before
he has he got the painting yet
but there is one thing you need to note
in both american
and british we would use only got when
we were talking about things that we're
possessing
i've got this back i've got your message
so here we can only say god but when you
are
kind of transforming yourself i've
gotten more serious about youtube i've
gotten more serious about my english
this is a very american way to say it
you're using garden
instead of god because god is more
british the next thing
collective nouns this is something i was
really confused when i was back at
school because at school we learned
british english
i would read a book and i would see
police are
trying to do this this and that and then
in another resource i would see police
is doing something and i would always
ask my teacher so
is police singular or plural do i refer
to police
as an entity or as a group of people
turns out in great britain you can do
both
you can say parliament r police are
the team are playing tonight in america
you won't do it in america team police
or whatever you have there is an entity
and it's always singular
the team is playing tonight police is
defunded or whatever
so it's always singular and we use is
manchester city have called
and here comes the reality police the
next difference
is have versus take we can take a shower
take a nap take a break so in great
britain
you can use both have and take you can
have a vacation
take a vacation have a break take a
break
have a shower take a shower in america
you can only use take
let's take a break let's take a shower
let's take a vacation
you never well you can't say have again
people would understand you
but if you're trying to be very correct
dramatically
you're taking your toefl test and you're
like i'm only sticking to american
version of english
then stick to american version of
english and only use take
with those actions the next difference
is actually really interesting
i always use should and this is an
auxiliary verb auxiliary verbs
help us understand the exact meaning of
a verb that we have in the sentence
they're gonna help us
deliver our thoughts with the exact
meaning so for example when i'm posting
a story on instagram
and i would say to someone should we go
hang out
outside some of you would dm me dm means
direct message me and say
marina but nobody uses the word should
it's really old are you young people you
are so old-fashioned
and this is when i know that those
people learned british english because
in great britain he would say shall we
go
to a birthday party in america i would
say should
so shoot is still used in the us but in
great britain people say
shell
also a lot of british people would say i
shall go home now
in america would say i will go home now
will is this intention
and shell is the same this intention but
in british english
when americans want to express lack of
obligation
they would use a helping verb they would
say you do not need to come to work
tomorrow in great britain they would
just drop it
and they would say you needn't come to
work
tomorrow and the last but not the least
remember i told you that americans just
love to simplify
things that refers to spelling as well
i'm pretty sure you all noticed it but
color
in great britain has this extra u in
america it's just color without a u
same goes for flavor favor
favorite and neighbor americans just
drop that you
again it's up to you which version you
want to use but just be consistent so if
you wrote color with a u
then please write flavor with a u as
well
and another difference is in words like
organize
emphasize realize in america we would
use
z in the end i z e in great britain it
will be
i s e that's the whole difference that
was it for me guys for today
if you're not yet subscribed to my
channel please subscribe and hit the
like button if you enjoyed the content
i will see you very soon in my next
videos bye